DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md, before:

# 🚀 Render.com Deployment - Quick Checklist

## Before You Start

- [ ] Code is committed to a GitHub repository
- [ ] You have a Render.com account (free tier is fine for testing)
- [ ] You have access to OpenEdX admin panel

## Deployment Steps

### 1️⃣ Push to GitHub

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Ready for Render deployment"
git push origin main
```

### 2️⃣ Deploy on Render

1. Go to [dashboard.render.com](https://dashboard.render.com)
2. Click **"New +"** → **"Blueprint"**
3. Connect your GitHub repository
4. Render will detect `render.yaml` automatically
5. Click **"Apply"**
6. Wait for deployment (~5-10 minutes)

### 3️⃣ Configure Environment

After deployment, update these environment variables in Render dashboard:

**Required:**

- `TOOL_BASE_URL` → Your Render URL (e.g., `https://your-app.onrender.com`)

**Optional but Recommended:**

- `OPENEDX_BASE_URL` → Your OpenEdX instance URL
- `TOOL_NAME` → Your tool's display name

### 4️⃣ Get Your URLs

After deployment, note these URLs:

```
Your App:     https://your-app-name.onrender.com
Login URL:    https://your-app-name.onrender.com/login
Launch URL:   https://your-app-name.onrender.com/launch
JWKS URL:     https://your-app-name.onrender.com/jwks
Status Check: https://your-app-name.onrender.com/api/status
```

### 5️⃣ Configure OpenEdX

1. Go to OpenEdX Admin → **LTI 1.3 Tool Configuration**
2. Create new tool with your URLs from step 4
3. Copy the **Client ID** and **Deployment ID**
4. Update `configs/lti_config.json` in your repository:
   ```json
   {
     "https://your-openedx.com": {
       "client_id": "PASTE_CLIENT_ID_HERE",
       "deployment_ids": ["PASTE_DEPLOYMENT_ID_HERE"]
     }
   }
   ```
5. Commit and push (will trigger auto-redeploy)

### 6️⃣ Test

1. Add LTI component in OpenEdX course
2. Launch from student view
3. You should see the launch success page! 🎉

## ⚠️ Important Notes

### Free Tier Limitations

- ⏰ Service spins down after 15 minutes of inactivity
- 🐌 First request after spin-down takes ~30 seconds (cold start)
- ✅ Perfect for development/testing
- 💰 Upgrade to Starter ($7/month) for production (always on)

### Common Issues

**Build fails?**

```bash
# Ensure build.sh is executable:
chmod +x build.sh
git add build.sh
git commit -m "Make build script executable"
git push
```

**LTI launch fails?**

- ✅ Check `TOOL_BASE_URL` is correct (HTTPS)
- ✅ Verify `configs/lti_config.json` has correct credentials
- ✅ Confirm OpenEdX has all three URLs configured
- ✅ Wait for cold start (30s) on free tier

**Session issues?**

- Already configured correctly for HTTPS and iframes
- `SESSION_COOKIE_SECURE=True`
- `SESSION_COOKIE_SAMESITE=None` (in config.py)

## 📚 Full Documentation

For detailed instructions, troubleshooting, and advanced configuration:
→ See `RENDER_DEPLOYMENT.md`

## 💰 Pricing

- **Free**: $0/month (spins down, perfect for dev/test)
- **Starter**: $7/month (always on, recommended for production)
- **Pro**: $25/month (for high traffic)

## ✅ Success Indicators

Your deployment is successful when:

- [ ] Build completes without errors
- [ ] `/api/status` returns 200 OK
- [ ] `/jwks` returns JSON with public keys
- [ ] Home page loads correctly
- [ ] LTI launch from OpenEdX works

---

**Need Help?** Check `RENDER_DEPLOYMENT.md` for detailed troubleshooting!

Commit message:

Update session management documentation for Render free tier deployment. Clarify limitations of ephemeral storage for sessions and enhance configuration notes in config.py and render.yaml. Add comprehensive guide on deploying LTI tools on Render's free tier, including session handling and upgrade paths.

DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md, after:

# 🚀 Render.com Deployment - Quick Checklist

## Before You Start

- [ ] Code is committed to a GitHub repository
- [ ] You have a Render.com account (free tier is fine for testing)
- [ ] You have access to OpenEdX admin panel

## Deployment Steps

### 1️⃣ Push to GitHub

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Ready for Render deployment"
git push origin main
```

### 2️⃣ Deploy on Render

1. Go to [dashboard.render.com](https://dashboard.render.com)
2. Click **"New +"** → **"Blueprint"**
3. Connect your GitHub repository
4. Render will detect `render.yaml` automatically
5. Click **"Apply"**
6. Wait for deployment (~5-10 minutes)

### 3️⃣ Configure Environment

After deployment, update these environment variables in Render dashboard:

**Required:**

- `TOOL_BASE_URL` → Your Render URL (e.g., `https://your-app.onrender.com`)

**Optional but Recommended:**

- `OPENEDX_BASE_URL` → Your OpenEdX instance URL
- `TOOL_NAME` → Your tool's display name

### 4️⃣ Get Your URLs

After deployment, note these URLs:

```
Your App:     https://your-app-name.onrender.com
Login URL:    https://your-app-name.onrender.com/login
Launch URL:   https://your-app-name.onrender.com/launch
JWKS URL:     https://your-app-name.onrender.com/jwks
Status Check: https://your-app-name.onrender.com/api/status
```

### 5️⃣ Configure OpenEdX

1. Go to OpenEdX Admin → **LTI 1.3 Tool Configuration**
2. Create new tool with your URLs from step 4
3. Copy the **Client ID** and **Deployment ID**
4. Update `configs/lti_config.json` in your repository:
   ```json
   {
     "https://your-openedx.com": {
       "client_id": "PASTE_CLIENT_ID_HERE",
       "deployment_ids": ["PASTE_DEPLOYMENT_ID_HERE"]
     }
   }
   ```
5. Commit and push (will trigger auto-redeploy)

### 6️⃣ Test

1. Add LTI component in OpenEdX course
2. Launch from student view
3. You should see the launch success page! 🎉

## ⚠️ Important Notes

### Free Tier Limitations

- ⏰ Service spins down after 15 minutes of inactivity
- 🐌 First request after spin-down takes ~30 seconds (cold start)
- 💾 No persistent disk (sessions stored in ephemeral storage)
  - **This is OK!** LTI launches create fresh sessions each time
- ✅ Perfect for development/testing/small courses
- 💰 Upgrade to Starter ($7/month) for production (always on + persistent disk)

> **Note:** Session storage limitation doesn't affect LTI functionality since each OpenEdX launch creates a new session. See `RENDER_FREE_TIER.md` for complete details.

### Common Issues

**Build fails?**

```bash
# Ensure build.sh is executable:
chmod +x build.sh
git add build.sh
git commit -m "Make build script executable"
git push
```

**LTI launch fails?**

- ✅ Check `TOOL_BASE_URL` is correct (HTTPS)
- ✅ Verify `configs/lti_config.json` has correct credentials
- ✅ Confirm OpenEdX has all three URLs configured
- ✅ Wait for cold start (30s) on free tier

**Session issues?**

- Already configured correctly for HTTPS and iframes
- `SESSION_COOKIE_SECURE=True`
- `SESSION_COOKIE_SAMESITE=None` (in config.py)

## 📚 Full Documentation

For detailed instructions, troubleshooting, and advanced configuration:
→ See `RENDER_DEPLOYMENT.md`

## 💰 Pricing

- **Free**: $0/month (spins down, perfect for dev/test)
- **Starter**: $7/month (always on, recommended for production)
- **Pro**: $25/month (for high traffic)

## ✅ Success Indicators

Your deployment is successful when:

- [ ] Build completes without errors
- [ ] `/api/status` returns 200 OK
- [ ] `/jwks` returns JSON with public keys
- [ ] Home page loads correctly
- [ ] LTI launch from OpenEdX works

---

**Need Help?** Check `RENDER_DEPLOYMENT.md` for detailed troubleshooting!
